# Summary

UD_Akkadian-MCONG is a treebank of normalized Akkadian sentences drawn mostly from Neo-Assyrian corpora lemmatized on [Oracc](http://oracc.museum.upenn.edu/). Sentences are annotated for lemma, syntactic dependencies, and morphological features. The treebank contains approximately 112,000 words.

# Introduction

The bulk of the raw sentences underlying UD_Akkadian-MCONG were scraped from selected projects hosted on Oracc that came with lemmatization, POS tags, and in some instances paragraph divisions. An additional set of augmentation data consisting of about 250 normalized sentences made by the contributor were also added. The current list of Oracc projects making up UD_Akkadian-MCONG is given below, including an indication of approximately what percentage of the project's data is fully annotated and present in the treebank. For more details on these projects, consult the [Oracc project list](http://oracc.museum.upenn.edu/projectlist.html).

* SAA 1, 5: Letters from the royal archives of Sargon II (r. 721-705). 100% complete.
* SAA 15: Further letters of Sargon II. 66% complete.
* SAA 2: Neo-Assyrian treaties and oaths. 100% complete.
* SAA 9: Assyrian prophecies. %100 complete.
* Anzu: Standard Babylonian Anzu Epic. %100 complete.
* Barutu: Extispicy texts. %100 complete.
* RINAP4: Royal inscriptions of Esarhaddon (r. 681-669). Annotations mainly cover Nineveh A prism and certain fragmentary copies. 10% complete.

In addition, UD_Akkadian-MCONG contains a modified version of the treebank UD_Akkadian-RIAO. While the latter treats pronominal suffixes on nouns as subtokens associated with their head noun, in UD_Akkadian-MCONG those suffixes (along with pronominal suffixes on verbs) are treated as morphological features of the head form. 

UD_Akkadian-MCONG was generated by a repeated process of bootstrapping involving manual annotation of sentences in Inception and a spaCy language model trained to produce morpho-syntactic annotations. See [the contributor's GitHub repository](https://github.com/megamattc/Akkadian-language-models) containing the data set for more information.


# Acknowledgments

This work was supported by the PhD Sandwich Fellowship Program of the the Planning and Budgeting Committee (PBC) of the state of Israel, under the direction of Shai Gordin. Research was funded by the Ministry of Science \& Technology, Israel, Grant 3-16464. In addition, I acknowledge assistance from Morris Alper, Richard Hudson, Jacobo Myerston, Aleksi Sahala, and Gabriel Stanovsky in theoretical aspects of creating this treebank, as well as adapting certain Python processing scripts from Niek Veldhuis. 

## References

* M. Luukko, A. Sahala, S. Hardwick, and K. Lindén. 2020. "Akkadian Treebank for early Neo-Assyrian Royal Inscriptions". In: Proceedings of the 19th International Workshop on Treebanks and Linguistic Theories, pages 124–134, Düsseldorf, Germany. Association for Computational Linguistics.


# Changelog

* 2023-05-15 v2.12
  * Initial release in Universal Dependencies.


<pre>
=== Machine-readable metadata (DO NOT REMOVE!) ================================
Data available since: UD v2.12
License: CC BY-SA 4.0
Includes text: yes
Genre: grammar-examples
Lemmas: manual native
UPOS: manual native
XPOS: not available
Features: manual native
Relations: manual native
Contributors: Ong, Matthew
Contributing: here
Contact: matthewcong@gmail.com
===============================================================================
</pre>
